all right folks welcome back this is
episode nine for the 2022 ICT mentorship
on
YouTube this lecture is going to be on
Power Three which is accumulation
manipulation and distribution and New
York PM session
opportunities all right so we're looking
at the NASDAQ e- mini Futures this is
The Continuous chart on trading
view so if you look at the daily range
where we've
been we're inside this range here okay
so we
have this swing
high and this swing low now why am I
picking these two reference points well
namely this is the low most recently
after taking out this short-term low so
we've dug into all the sell side
liquidity resting below that
low we retraced back up inside of this
High to that low so we went back up
into a premium the range high to low
running a fib just to get the 50% level
that gives us equilibrium anything below
that is a
discount notice how the market traded
down on Monday into a deep
discount but did not
take out these lows over
here but look how we closed on
Monday we had an indecisive candle the
body was basically absent the open and
close was essentially you the same
thing if we have that and the Market's
trading down into a discount even though
we might
have a load down here that we're
targeting this may require a retracement
now notice at the close of Monday's
trading we had an imbalance from this
low and this
high on Tuesday's trading
overnight the equities
markets had a run up into
this imbalance here so this fair value
Gap was ret traded to in
here this
low and this High we'll look at that in
reference to the lower time frame
this lower
level is the low end of the fair value
gap on the daily chart and this level up
here is the upper end of the fair value
Gap I'm taking your attention to
Monday's
trading and I want to talk a little bit
about power three which is accumulation
distribution and manipulation okay
so generally my teachings are like this
if I'm
bullish I'm expecting the opening price
to be near the low of the day or the
session then it trades lower making some
important low and then
rallies creates a
high and then closes near the high of
the day now it's not important for you
to try to predict the closing price what
I'm trying to train you to
anticipate is the likelihood of the
market making some kind kind of a fake
move like a Judas swing okay Judas swing
is the false move typically in London
and in New York session there are fake
runs that start off a move and I walked
you through it last week on my community
tab where I outlined the actual Judas
swing for that particular day using the
fair value Gap outlin the the low I was
only off by cor of a point for the low
in that range and that created the low
today the idea is what I'm going to show
you here as
well on Monday we had price Dro down
overnight Consolidated and then we have
a little bit of a rally ahead of the
equities open okay so in here we have
8:30 in the morning if you look at 8:30
what do we have we have the highs over
here they're suspect because they're
relative equal highs there but look what
we left here ahead of 8:30 we had this
huge imbalance
so if we run these highs out after the
open at
9:30 it's likely to trade down into that
and rebounds but watch what it does it
and we trade up into that level here
which creates the fair value gaps
low-end
parameter remember this is Monday's
trading it sells off so this line isn't
here on Monday that's not what we're
looking at we're looking at the
likelihood of coming back down into this
area here
after taking these highs
out if it does so if it trades back into
this imbalance that's a good candidate
to go
long now the imbalance in here if you go
to the left of it you can see the down
close candles that's your bullish order
block the market trades down hits the
order block and it's an afternoon trade
so it starts to rally and then
consolidates since to close overnight we
create a wicked run last night this was
an it ran last night and most of all the
move for today was done before we even
got to the opening of the
morning had a little bit of a
retracement after 8:30 and at 9:30 we
Consolidated I'll talk a little bit
about that as a market profile in a
moment but then we drop down create an
important low of the day and then we
rally it got real close to the fair
value gaps high-end parameter but didn't
get to it
we don't need it's just like I was
mentioning here you don't need to try to
predict the closing price with power
three which is accumulation manipulation
so in other words if you're bullish it
opens where you think it's going to
trade higher it's going to be most
likely a small little move lower that's
the move you want to try to go in and
Hunt along if you miss it you want to
try to get long real close to where the
opening price is now the question is
going to be is where is the opening
price well I like 830 okay you use the
opening price here at 830 draw that out
in time did we go below it yes did we go
inside the imbalance yes did we take out
a short-term low yes did we hit an order
block yes was it an optimal trade entry
yes lots of factors there over here same
thing opening price here did we trade
lower than that yes did it go even lower
than that later on in the afternoon yes
then it rallied taking out the relative
equal highs here and again gravitating
towards that upper end of that fair
value gap on the daily
chart now I'm in a 5 minute chart on
that same February 14th and I want to
take you closer to what price is done in
here that imbalance the lowest portion
of it here with all the down closed
candles here now this is anchored to the
Daily bullish order block but you can
see how we traded into it here with one
two three four down closed candles that
is a
complete order block on this time frame
so consecutive down closed candles right
before a price surge that has an
imbalance that's how you find your order
blocks okay so a high probability order
block would be your narrative or your
bias is
bullish you're looking for displacement
that's this right here where the market
runs real quick higher and the down
close candles you want to mark that out
and anticipate a return back in to that
now again this level is not there yet we
don't know this level until Monday's
close so don't be tricked thinking that
I have this level here and I knew it was
going to go right to that level in term
I'm not suggesting that at all what I'm
suggesting is is watch what happens when
it creates that high it breaks
down all this price action here gets
overran into a retracement back down
into this imbalance here the low of this
candle and the high of this candle that
right there that's your fair value
got with an order
block and optimal trade
entry rallies even though it's sloppy
it's still continuously driving
higher this high at the close on this
day here at say 4:30 okay 4:30 in
afternoon to me that's like the close
for me no it trades a little bit later
than that and then closes for a little
while and it also technically closes
when the bell rings at 4:00 p.m. you
local time in New
York because there's a little bit of
trading past that I like to just look at
430 and just consider that where we are
in terms of what we've done for the full
range and then determine what I have
left for maybe inbalance or liquidity
pools here
is that drop down
here on a one minute
chart it's digging into that order block
right
here if you look real close let me go
back up one slide I want you to see what
I'm showing you here right here this
price action see 14140
14120 this little area right here I'm
looking at on a one minute
chart 14140 14120 that in that vicinity
see that small little Gap right there
see that see the swing High we trade
above it create a fair value Gap there
trade down into it this is an afternoon
trade this is 2:00 in the afternoon
local time in New York inside the order
block inside the fair value Gap inside a
retracement of the fair value Gap that
sets the stage of a market run up
into a higher retracement
now we don't know if this is going to be
the
closing parameter for a daily fair value
Gap we don't need to know that yet but
this is a likely scenario to go long and
we can look for a run back up into this
range
here or run the buy stops above here or
maybe inside
here sloppy run but nonetheless it's
still pressing higher
now here's today on the 15th of February
2022 notice what we had with had this
enormous price run overnight in
technically the London
session
now a lot of you going to ask would I
have caught this no no I wouldn't have
caught it I would have missed it and I
would if I was awake I wouldn't have
seen it coming let's just put it that
way so this right here was a complete
surprise to me when I woke up saw it
but I want you to think about when you
have these overnight runs that were
basically these big moves overnight
before the session begins in New York
when you're trading equities this also
works with Forex too so it's important
try not to chase price this is what I
mean by don't chase it don't chase it
last week when I was commenting and
outlining the NASDAQ and giving you a
fair value Gap real time explaining to
where I thought it was going to draw
down to and it created the New York
session low of the day okay that's what
I was outlining just take a look at go
back and look at you'll see it's it's
pretty obvious the same logic I'm
amplifying that here okay overnight what
was the market doing it was rallying so
when we open up at 8:30 do we go in here
and start buying it just because it's
gone up overnight no we don't chase it
you have to wait no we don't chase it we
have to wait for more information what
information are we waiting for well
typically whenever you see a big run up
or a big run down there's a
consolidation that takes place shortly
after now not always it just keeps on
ripping higher or lower and you'll
either miss a move or if you get lucky
maybe you can participate in it but this
is what I typically look for so if
there's a lot of range movement
overnight which overnight um 2 o'cl in
the morning to 5 o' in the morning okay
if we get a big run like that which is
what we're seeing
here right away in my mind I'm thinking
don't trade a lot don't
expect a lot of in and out in and out
perect you know perfect Precision wait
for a real significant price move
otherwise you're going to get chopped up
now what does that mean well when we
have it opening here at 830 look to the
left what do we have we have this High
here and we have the low over
here we can use this one because they're
relative equal but I like this one why
why do I like this one what's below it
fair value got see that so it's likely a
trade down after it creates this sloppy
opening look at all this movement in
here now as a personal study there's two
or three YouTubers that I watch that
trade the equities market indices and
I'm not trying to say anything bad about
them I just like to listen to what
they're thinking because they don't look
at the market like I do I'm not
suggesting that they're not profitable
because they show live trades they get
into trades they take them and sometimes
they win and sometimes they don't but
I'd like to read kind of like a a Squawk
Box what their interpretation of price
is and they're looking at this area in
here and
it's back and forth they think if it go
if it goes here it's going to go there
if it goes here if it's going to go
there it's all these scenarios are going
through you know randomly in their live
streams so when I'm watching price I'm
listening for them to want to be a buyer
so when they're trying to be a buyer
that means they're they're already
hunting a continuation of this move here
I want to see a low
form now this is what we have for the
today we we start going lower first so
that's good we create a pseudo Judas
swing but did it create a nice low and
turn away from itm look at all this back
and forth and it created these suspect
lows in here relative equal lows there's
going to be sell side building up below
that sell stops okay when it starts to
go higher anyone that was long overnight
they're going to jam their stop loss
right underneath
that okay when this occurs that's the
very scenario I'm looking for now right
away in my mind here's what I want you
to understand if there's a big move
overnight for equities this is not Forex
okay this part is not Forex it's just
for trading like NASDAQ Dow and e- mini
S&P if there a big run
overnight avoid the New York session
don't even mess with the New York
session wait until the other side of
lunch at 1:00 in the afternoon New York
time and then anticipate the New York
lunch lows taken out or the New York
morning session lows which is what we
have
here notice how we rallied up we didn't
take out the relative equal highs here
that was formed ahead of 7 o'clock in
the morning notice that now this over
here we know this range up here is the
high end of that fair value Gap why do
we know that because the 14th stopped
trading and it had the indecisive candle
in the daily chart so it's likely that
we might trade up into this Range High
and this is that range low so if we can
draw down below that low it was formed
initially in New York
session we have a fair value Gap over
here with sell side while we have yet to
take out the buy side theity here
at around I don't know
14575 and then get up to that fair value
Gap high or the the boundary of it okay
kind of like the resistance level of
it so this is the draw in liquidity and
we have a minor draw in liquidity here
with Bice liquidity look what we have in
terms of price action the NASDAQ drops
down taking out the cell side digging
into that fair value Gap see that look
at the bodies of the candles isn't that
neat how just respects that level back
here now that's not random okay these
are algorithmic principles that are in
play and these markets are unbelievably
precise when they are in better
conditions right now if you've been
trading with live funds or if you've
been trying to follow price action
there's been a lot of it makes a run
then it goes into this choppy sideways
and it's very frustrating if you're
trying to get like sustained price moves
or if you don't know how to operate in
these like these sloppy little ranges
like this I personally don't think that
this is high probability trading you can
get chopped up you can get losing trades
you can draw your account down if you
don't control yourself you can blow your
account in these types of conditions how
do you avoid that how do you avoid
running out your account and then
scaling back if you're a high frequency
type of a Trader how do you draw back on
the frequency and look for the better
setups what I'm showing you here you
wait you don't chase the overnight run
and you wait for them to give you a low
that everybody overnight will want to
put their stop loss right beneath that
after it starts a rally above it it's
even better when you don't have this
High taken out yet see how I took it up
here and it just went right down for him
that's engineering
liquidity it runs up consolidates
creates a low starts to rally and
everybody's thinking I don't want to
lose my profits I don't want to lose out
on making more money but I had to put a
stop loss right here because the books
tell me I had to do that so I did the
same kind of stuff folks I'm not trying
to talk down anybody but I'm just
repeating what a retail Trader's mindset
would be and the logic behind this okay
so the narrative with this day was the
stocks were trailed below these lows the
afternoon session again creates the low
of the
day takes the sell side liquidity out
into a fair value Gap and then rallies
now in here I'm going to teach you a
little bit more about that
watch notice we don't really have a fair
value gap down here but it gives us the
basis for expecting the price to start
to Rally into the afternoon now at 2:00
in the afternoon 1,400 on
this trading view chart that starts 2
o'clock in the afternoon New York local
time we have the market trading down
into an imbalance over here liquidity
resting below these relative equal lows
is taken out
so what are we looking at we've seen a
price run that we don't think needs to
come back down here because the logic is
the overnight stops have been ran out
down here there's no reason for the
market to want to come back down there
but we have this low and these relative
equal lows here Post New York lunch New
York lunch is noon to 1:00 in the
afternoon New York local
time so the imbalance we trade down into
that what's the likelihood of it coming
all the way through the imbalance and
then going after that low not likely not
likely not after seeing this run here
they don't want to give these Traders
another chance to get back in they got
stopped out so it's going to be a little
bit more sneakier when they make these
new setups that continue into a higher
run so they take out the sell side below
these relative equal lows take those
stops out and then it rallies and then
drops back down now here watch we have a
swing high right here it breaks it does
it trade above that yes was it energetic
yes does it have a fair value Gap yes so
now the market trades down into it here
creates a short-term low you could be a
buyer there there's nothing wrong with
that but say you missed it say you just
I mean this is a one minute chart say
you missed it and the market starts to
run off like this but then it gives you
another opportunity I've had many times
trades formed just like this where I was
looking for something I was waiting for
a setup to happen either my cell phone's
buzzing or I grab a drink is just
outside of reach I got to go walk over
to the other end of the desk and grab it
and then all of a sudden here you go I
miss it takes
off the fair value Gap is even better
when you have the sell side liquidity
resting below short-term
low and the drop down into it here you
can use that low as your entry or minus
one tick okay this short-term low
forms at 2:34 p.m. now if you look at
the low figure up here that value
represents that candle right there so
that's why you see it highlighter here
when I took a screenshot I'm holding
underneath this candle so that way the
reference points up here are directly
related to this candle so you can see
the low is
14528 and a half so you could be a buyer
on a limit at
14,520 and a quarter or maybe if you
want to try to reach for the you the 28
even
number either way that's a nice
place to put a limit order
in the short-term low down here after
the fair value Gap forms that's where
your stop loss is that's the rules so
you have an entry point your stop and
between the two of them it works out to
be okay let's say you
have
14 14 and a
quarter in terms of risk okay so 14 and
a quarter points or handles of total
risk and let's assume that you were
trading I don't know six contracts on
the
micro you're essentially looking
at buying and
risking
$85 to make about
$300 so it's about 3.5 to one reward the
risk thereabouts I'm roughing I don't
have calculator in front of me folks
just you do the math
now here this value is important because
I want you to see in these conditions
you can't expect it to be perfect you
can't be you know expecting to be in
there at the lowest point no draw down
no heat on the position and then it just
goes in your favor don't think like
that you can see on this candle if you
would have bought here you would have
had nine points of heat okay or
basically $54 if you were trading six
micros now obviously it goes up more
than that if you're trading One Mini
because it's
$20 per
handle but overall this is a nice little
setup with the afternoon using the logic
over here even though it doesn't give us
a fair value Gap the you know the setups
that I'm teaching you to use using the
fair value Gap afternoon taking the
stops it provides the Baseline for bias
for the afternoon now what did I teach
you here I taught you that you can use
these reference points with the
underlying sentiment that's already in
motion if you didn't trade overnight and
take that big run I didn't get any of
that run I didn't do anything with that
if you miss that it doesn't matter
because that is something that's going
to give you more insight and it tells
you when to avoid the morning session
don't trade it everybody's going to be
doing what think about it everybody woke
up and saw these markets and they all
wanted to do what they wanted to buy it
because it's going up a lot and they
want to chase it that idea leads many
times
to losing trades and then it's starts
this cycle where you go into this
chasing chasing chasing and then when
the market does these sideways
consolidations and sloppy choppy market
conditions it it's literally like a
blowtorch on your account if you don't
know how to stop or if you don't know
what you're doing you can literally talk
yourself into millions of Trades and
then draw your
countdown last slide and just to hammer
this down this is zoomed in on a one
minute
chart swing High broken fair value G
right there and we have that shortterm
low here I'm noted in here so that's
where you would be basically entering
one with that idea trading below that is
where the sell stops are trading below
that now it goes below that now some of
you have mentioned in the comment
section does this invalidate the fair
value Gap no it does
not the idea is the fair value gaps we
look at the look at the body of this
candle here isn't that respecting that
yes so in my mind I'm thinking well I
know prices sometimes especially the way
it is right now it's very volatile so
I'm permitting a greater level of
imperfection in price delivery and
then using the logic of the fair value
Gap as the basis for my entry idea and
then using the stop premise which it
didn't get it didn't get here it didn't
stop you out you had basically
what
five what was that five or so uh more
handles before you would have been
stopped now watching it live might make
you look little nervous but at some
point folks you're going to have to get
used to if you're going to trade like
this in these really little time frames
and you're trying to be very Nimble
you're going to have
to learn to trust the setups and let the
stops do their jobs and if it if it gets
stopped out that's just one trade you
got wrong it's not your
career look for the next one now I'm
going to throw this in here as a bonus
but you know take it for what it is it r
is here takes off and does not take out
that the buy side liquidity resting
above here did not get taken here yet
and then we had this
imbalance and it trades down into it and
then hits what the order
block that's a buy and you can if you
miss this one you can pick up this one
based on the logic I teach on the
YouTube channel so this is actually
something that's taught in the YouTube
channel okay uh this whole pattern here
is
exactly right out of my high probability
short-term
trading or scalping series I can't
remember exactly what the title was but
uh this pattern has right in that and
then it runs for that liquidity there so
there's two setups there so I've took
something from the free lessons that's
already on the YouTube channel and also
amplifying something I've been teaching
in this mentorship series hopefully you
found this one insightful and until talk
to you next time be safe